README.md, before:

# UEGitWorkshop (UE5.6)

UEGitWorkshop is a minimal Unreal Engine 5.6 project set up to demonstrate clean Git practices for UE teams: correct ignore rules, Git LFS for binary assets, consistent naming conventions, and a simple GitHub Actions sanity-check workflow (no packaging or release).

This README explains the repo layout, prerequisites, how to run/build locally, and how CI is configured.

## Highlights

- Clean Git setup for UE projects (ignore rules + LFS)
- Consistent naming (e.g., maps use `L_` prefix: `L_Main`)
- Cross-checked source/module/targets naming (`UEGitWorkshop`)
- One‑shot build script to generate project files and build once
- GitHub Actions workflow for a minimal sanity check on pushes/PRs

## Requirements

- Windows 10/11
- Unreal Engine 5.6 (installed via Epic Games Launcher)
  - Example path: `C:\Program Files\Epic Games\UE_5.6`
- Visual Studio 2022 with:
  - Desktop development with C++
  - Game development with C++ (MSVC, Windows SDK, C++ profiling tools)
- Python 3.11+ in `PATH` (for `build_ue.py`)
- Git + Git LFS (`git lfs install`)

## Project Structure

Top‑level, simplified (generated folders like `Intermediate/`, `DerivedDataCache/`, `Saved/`, and `Binaries/` are ignored by Git):

```text
.
├── .clangd
├── .editorconfig
├── .vscode/
│   └── settings.json
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── unreal-sanity-check.yml
├── Config/
│   ├── DefaultEngine.ini        ← Startup/Game map set to L_Main
│   └── DefaultGame.ini          ← Project metadata
├── Content/
│   ├── Maps/
│   │   └── L_Main.umap          ← Main level (rename done in Editor)
│   ├── Materials/
│   └── SimBlank/
│       ├── Blueprints/
│       └── Levels/
├── Source/
│   ├── UEGitWorkshop/
│   │   ├── Public/
│   │   │   ├── GitWorkshopHello.h
│   │   │   ├── HelloWorldSubsystem.h
│   │   │   └── UEGitWorkshopLog.h
│   │   ├── Private/
│   │   │   ├── GitWorkshopHello.cpp
│   │   │   ├── HelloWorldSubsystem.cpp
│   │   │   └── UEGitWorkshopLog.cpp
│   │   ├── UEGitWorkshop.Build.cs
│   │   └── UEGitWorkshop.cpp
│   ├── UEGitWorkshop.Target.cs
│   └── UEGitWorkshopEditor.Target.cs
├── UEGitWorkshop.uproject
└── build_ue.py
```

## Local Setup

1. Clone and enable LFS

- `git clone <your-repo-url>`
- `cd UEGitWorkshop`
- `git lfs install`

1. Configure Unreal Engine path

- Option A: Set an environment variable (recommended):
  - `UE_ENGINE_ROOT="C:\\Program Files\\Epic Games\\UE_5.6"`
- Option B: Pass `--engine` argument to the build script.

1. Ensure Visual Studio 2022 with C++ components is installed.

## Getting Started

Run these once in your clone to align tooling and branches.

- Initialize LFS and enable the repo hooks
  - `git lfs install`
  - `git config core.hooksPath .githooks`
- Set the Engine path for this session (adjust if you installed UE elsewhere)
  - Windows CMD: `set "UE_ENGINE_ROOT=C:\\Program Files\\Epic Games\\UE_5.6"`
- Pull latest and create your personal feature branch
  - `git switch main && git pull --rebase`
  - `git switch -c feat/<yourname>-lab1`
  - `git push -u origin feat/<yourname>-lab1`
- Commit messages follow Conventional Commits. Allowed types: `feat|fix|docs|style|refactor|perf|test|build|ci|chore|revert`.

## Build & Run

Generate project files and build once via the helper script:

- `python build_ue.py --engine "C:\\Program Files\\Epic Games\\UE_5.6" --config Development --platform Win64`
  - The script tries `UnrealVersionSelector.exe` or falls back to UBT `-ProjectFiles`
  - Builds the Editor target by default; use `--game` to build game target

Open the project:
- Double‑click `UEGitWorkshop.uproject`, or
- Open the generated solution in Visual Studio and start the Editor target.

Windows Command Prompt equivalents:

- Build once using your env var: `py -3.11 build_ue.py --engine "%UE_ENGINE_ROOT%" --config Development --platform Win64`
- Launch the Editor: `"%UE_ENGINE_ROOT%\Engine\Binaries\Win64\UnrealEditor.exe" "%CD%\UEGitWorkshop.uproject" -log`

Default maps (configured in `Config/DefaultEngine.ini`):

- `EditorStartupMap=/Game/Maps/L_Main.L_Main`
- `GameDefaultMap=/Game/Maps/L_Main.L_Main`

If you just renamed maps in the filesystem, open the project and choose “Fix Up Redirectors” in the Content Browser to preserve references.

## Personal Branch Workflow

1) Make a small code change (example: tweak the on‑screen Hello message)
- Edit `Source/UEGitWorkshop/Private/HelloWorldSubsystem.cpp` and change the displayed string or `FColor`.
- Stage and commit:
  - `git add Source/UEGitWorkshop/Private/HelloWorldSubsystem.cpp`
  - `git commit -m "feat(log): personalize hello text"`

2) Push and open a Pull Request
- `git push`
- Open a PR from `feat/<yourname>-lab1` to `main` in GitHub.

3) Verify the CI sanity check
- Wait for the “Unreal Sanity Check” workflow to run on your PR.
- Download the `sanity-report` artifact and open `sanity.txt` to see branch/SHA, a file listing, and whitespace status.

## CI/CD (GitHub Actions)

Workflow file: `.github/workflows/unreal-sanity-check.yml`

What it does:

- Runs on push, pull_request, and manual dispatch.
- Restores LFS files, verifies the `.uproject` exists, runs whitespace/EOL checks.
- Uploads an artifact `sanity-report` with a brief report and logs.

Run it:

- GitHub → Actions → Unreal Sanity Check → Run workflow

## Naming Conventions

- Maps: `L_Example` (e.g., `L_Main`)
- Blueprints: `BP_Example`
- Materials: `M_Example`, Material Instances: `MI_Example`
- Textures: `T_Example`
- C++ classes: `A`/`U`/`F`/`I` prefix by type (e.g., `AActor`, `UObject`)
- Module/Targets/Project: `UEGitWorkshop` (PascalCase, no underscores)
- Logging: dedicated category `LogUEGitWorkshop` instead of `LogTemp`

## Troubleshooting

- “Could not locate Unreal Engine root”: set `--engine` or `UE_ENGINE_ROOT`.
- UBT/Generator errors: ensure Visual Studio 2022 with C++ workloads is installed.
- Missing binaries after build: check `Saved/Logs/` artifacts and runner environment.
- Asset renames: always rename inside the Unreal Editor and then “Fix Up Redirectors”.
- LFS pointer files present after clone: `git lfs fetch --all` then `git lfs checkout` to materialize binaries.
- Commit rejected by hook: use the Conventional Commit types above, or enable hooks with `git config core.hooksPath .githooks`.
- Whitespace/EOL errors locally: ensure LF as per `.editorconfig`, run `git diff --check`, re‑save and commit.

## License

This repository is for workshop/training purposes. Add your license terms here if you plan to distribute.

Commit message:

docs(readme): note naming report and editor redirectors

README.md, after:

# UEGitWorkshop (UE5.6)

UEGitWorkshop is a minimal Unreal Engine 5.6 project set up to demonstrate clean Git practices for UE teams: correct ignore rules, Git LFS for binary assets, consistent naming conventions, and a simple GitHub Actions sanity-check workflow (no packaging or release).

This README explains the repo layout, prerequisites, how to run/build locally, and how CI is configured.

## Highlights

- Clean Git setup for UE projects (ignore rules + LFS)
- Consistent naming (e.g., maps use `L_` prefix: `L_Main`)
- Cross-checked source/module/targets naming (`UEGitWorkshop`)
- One‑shot build script to generate project files and build once
- GitHub Actions workflow for a minimal sanity check on pushes/PRs

## Requirements

- Windows 10/11
- Unreal Engine 5.6 (installed via Epic Games Launcher)
  - Example path: `C:\Program Files\Epic Games\UE_5.6`
- Visual Studio 2022 with:
  - Desktop development with C++
  - Game development with C++ (MSVC, Windows SDK, C++ profiling tools)
- Python 3.11+ in `PATH` (for `build_ue.py`)
- Git + Git LFS (`git lfs install`)

## Project Structure

Top‑level, simplified (generated folders like `Intermediate/`, `DerivedDataCache/`, `Saved/`, and `Binaries/` are ignored by Git):

```text
.
├── .clangd
├── .editorconfig
├── .vscode/
│   └── settings.json
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── unreal-sanity-check.yml
├── Config/
│   ├── DefaultEngine.ini        ← Startup/Game map set to L_Main
│   └── DefaultGame.ini          ← Project metadata
├── Content/
│   ├── Maps/
│   │   └── L_Main.umap          ← Main level (rename done in Editor)
│   ├── Materials/
│   └── SimBlank/
│       ├── Blueprints/
│       └── Levels/
├── Source/
│   ├── UEGitWorkshop/
│   │   ├── Public/
│   │   │   ├── GitWorkshopHello.h
│   │   │   ├── HelloWorldSubsystem.h
│   │   │   └── UEGitWorkshopLog.h
│   │   ├── Private/
│   │   │   ├── GitWorkshopHello.cpp
│   │   │   ├── HelloWorldSubsystem.cpp
│   │   │   └── UEGitWorkshopLog.cpp
│   │   ├── UEGitWorkshop.Build.cs
│   │   └── UEGitWorkshop.cpp
│   ├── UEGitWorkshop.Target.cs
│   └── UEGitWorkshopEditor.Target.cs
├── UEGitWorkshop.uproject
└── build_ue.py
```

## Local Setup

1. Clone and enable LFS

- `git clone <your-repo-url>`
- `cd UEGitWorkshop`
- `git lfs install`

1. Configure Unreal Engine path

- Option A: Set an environment variable (recommended):
  - `UE_ENGINE_ROOT="C:\\Program Files\\Epic Games\\UE_5.6"`
- Option B: Pass `--engine` argument to the build script.

1. Ensure Visual Studio 2022 with C++ components is installed.

## Getting Started

Run these once in your clone to align tooling and branches.

- Initialize LFS and enable the repo hooks
  - `git lfs install`
  - `git config core.hooksPath .githooks`
- Set the Engine path for this session (adjust if you installed UE elsewhere)
  - Windows CMD: `set "UE_ENGINE_ROOT=C:\\Program Files\\Epic Games\\UE_5.6"`
- Pull latest and create your personal feature branch
  - `git switch main && git pull --rebase`
  - `git switch -c feat/<yourname>-lab1`
  - `git push -u origin feat/<yourname>-lab1`
- Commit messages follow Conventional Commits. Allowed types: `feat|fix|docs|style|refactor|perf|test|build|ci|chore|revert`.

## Build & Run

Generate project files and build once via the helper script:

- `python build_ue.py --engine "C:\\Program Files\\Epic Games\\UE_5.6" --config Development --platform Win64`
  - The script tries `UnrealVersionSelector.exe` or falls back to UBT `-ProjectFiles`
  - Builds the Editor target by default; use `--game` to build game target

Open the project:
- Double‑click `UEGitWorkshop.uproject`, or
- Open the generated solution in Visual Studio and start the Editor target.

Windows Command Prompt equivalents:

- Build once using your env var: `py -3.11 build_ue.py --engine "%UE_ENGINE_ROOT%" --config Development --platform Win64`
- Launch the Editor: `"%UE_ENGINE_ROOT%\Engine\Binaries\Win64\UnrealEditor.exe" "%CD%\UEGitWorkshop.uproject" -log`

Default maps (configured in `Config/DefaultEngine.ini`):

- `EditorStartupMap=/Game/Maps/L_Main.L_Main`
- `GameDefaultMap=/Game/Maps/L_Main.L_Main`

If you just renamed maps in the filesystem, open the project and choose “Fix Up Redirectors” in the Content Browser to preserve references.

## Personal Branch Workflow

1) Make a small code change (example: tweak the on‑screen Hello message)
- Edit `Source/UEGitWorkshop/Private/HelloWorldSubsystem.cpp` and change the displayed string or `FColor`.
- Stage and commit:
  - `git add Source/UEGitWorkshop/Private/HelloWorldSubsystem.cpp`
  - `git commit -m "feat(log): personalize hello text"`

2) Push and open a Pull Request
- `git push`
- Open a PR from `feat/<yourname>-lab1` to `main` in GitHub.

3) Verify the CI sanity check
- Wait for the “Unreal Sanity Check” workflow to run on your PR.
- Download the `sanity-report` artifact and open `sanity.txt` to see branch/SHA, a file listing, and whitespace status.

## CI/CD (GitHub Actions)

Workflow file: `.github/workflows/unreal-sanity-check.yml`

What it does:

- Runs on push, pull_request, and manual dispatch.
- Restores LFS files, verifies the `.uproject` exists, runs whitespace/EOL checks.
- Uploads an artifact `sanity-report` with a brief report and logs.

Run it:

- GitHub → Actions → Unreal Sanity Check → Run workflow

## Naming Conventions

- Maps: `L_Example` (e.g., `L_Main`)
- Blueprints: `BP_Example`
- Materials: `M_Example`, Material Instances: `MI_Example`
- Textures: `T_Example`
- C++ classes: `A`/`U`/`F`/`I` prefix by type (e.g., `AActor`, `UObject`)
- Module/Targets/Project: `UEGitWorkshop` (PascalCase, no underscores)
- Logging: dedicated category `LogUEGitWorkshop` instead of `LogTemp`

Notes:
- Rename/move assets inside the Unreal Editor only, then run “Fix Up Redirectors” on the parent folders to preserve references.
- CI appends a naming report (`naming.txt`) in the `sanity-report` artifact; it heuristically validates prefixes by folder (maps/blueprints/materials/textures) and is non‑blocking for workshops.

## Troubleshooting

- “Could not locate Unreal Engine root”: set `--engine` or `UE_ENGINE_ROOT`.
- UBT/Generator errors: ensure Visual Studio 2022 with C++ workloads is installed.
- Missing binaries after build: check `Saved/Logs/` artifacts and runner environment.
- Asset renames: always rename inside the Unreal Editor and then “Fix Up Redirectors”.
- LFS pointer files present after clone: `git lfs fetch --all` then `git lfs checkout` to materialize binaries.
- Commit rejected by hook: use the Conventional Commit types above, or enable hooks with `git config core.hooksPath .githooks`.
- Whitespace/EOL errors locally: ensure LF as per `.editorconfig`, run `git diff --check`, re‑save and commit.

## License

This repository is for workshop/training purposes. Add your license terms here if you plan to distribute.
